# Sprint 1

## Info
- Name: Leon Hoang (Phu Hoang)
- GithubID: PhuHoang177
- Group name: iHear

## What I planned to do
- Research and select the most suitable Framework
- Write document to guide other members through setting up iOS development environment
- Design the app logo
- Code a front-end screen: One dashboard tab for all Roles
- Connect the app to our database (Firebase)
- Write document to help other members build and run the app

## What I did not complete
- Connect the app to our database (Firebase)

## What issue I worked on
- [#2](https://github.com/utk-cs340-fall24/iHear/issues/2): Research and select a suitable Framework
- [#3](https://github.com/utk-cs340-fall24/iHear/issues/3): Design app logo
- [#4](https://github.com/utk-cs340-fall24/iHear/issues/3): Front-end: Dashboard tab for all roles

## Files that I worked on
- Research framework:
    - The 4 types of framework are in: *iHear/projects/researches*
    - A guidance document on setting iOS environment: *iHear/documents/build-app-guidance.docx*
- Design app logo: 4 versions:
    - *iHear/projects/iHear/assets/images/iHear-1.png*
    - *iHear/projects/iHear/assets/images/iHear-2.png*
    - *iHear/projects/iHear/assets/images/iHear-3.png*
    - *iHear/projects/iHear/assets/images/iHear-4.png*
- Front-end: Dashboard tab for all roles: *iHear/projects/iHear/app/(tabs)/dashboard.tsx*
- A make-up json file to test reading data: *iHear/projects/iHear/assets/data/tickets.json*

## What I accomplished
### Research and select the most suitable Framework
- There are 4 types of framework (build method, to be exactly) in the *iHear/projects/researches*:
    - **sand-box**: This is the a plug-and-play app for beginner to get used to Expo React Native. It is convenient but has many limitations, one of them is missing some core libraries such as Firebase connection, Notification pushing... Therefore, we cannot use this build for our project, although it is easy to setup and learn concepts.
    - **ios-app**: This app is generated by XCode on MacOS, we need to run it once with XCode to activate the security check of its iOS Simulator. Then React Native can create app through that Simulator next time. We do not use this app, because it only runs on iOS.
    - **blank-app**: This app uses the standard [Development Build](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/), but I try creating with the **blank** mode to simplify it. However, it turns out we actually needs other default components to make it run in Expo Framework.
    - **real-app**: This app uses the standard [Development Build](https://docs.expo.dev/develop/development-builds/create-a-build/), so it is compatible with many core libraries such as *Firebase Connection* and *Notification Pushing*. We decided to use this build as the official framework for our app.
- Write a document guiding other members on building the app with our Framework:
    - It took me nearly a day to play around with iOS security requirements and settings (it needs time to build app and then fails).
    - I recorded each step as a picture.
    - Then I used my tablet to note on each picture.
    - Finnaly I posted it to our Discord and tag everyone.
    - The Android version is not necessary because it has less security steps.
- Design the app logo:
    - I designed the app with Canva.
    - I edited to 4 versions according to the feedback of members.
    - We accept the last version (ver 4) is the official logo.
    - I also learned some commands to reset the build so that new logo is implemented (on iOS):
        - sudo rm -rf ios
        - npx expo run:ios --no-build-cache
- Code a front-end screen: One dashboard tab for all Roles
    - I made up a json file to mimic the return data from the Database.
    - I used FlatList structure to load all the data.
    - Then I style the front end to have a nice format.
    - It took me around 2 days to learn and apply code into my app.
- Testing to ensure compability on many platforms:
    - Real device iPhone 13 Pro
    - iOS simulator iPhone 11 - iOS version 18.0
    - Android Pixel 6 API 34 - Android version "UpsideDowCake"
- Connect the app to our database (Firebase)
    - I actually finished it, but my workload is already enough. Therefore, I decide to help other members complete this task.
